Let's talk about the differences between the open source version of Sensu and the Enterprise version.
First though, full disclosure: I am NOT an employee of Heavy Water Industries.
I'm just a normal engineer.
I am responsible for the systems that I build.
I am on call for them,
and I have to make that decision of whether we should build versus buy
or whether we should pay someone to help us build something
or devote a team of engineers to help us integrate something.
To be honest I've never used the Enterprise version of Sensu.
I've only used the open-sourced version.
But, this is an introductory course, and it's worth talking about, the differences here.
Not everyone has a crack team of engineers to take Sensu and integrate it tightly
with their existing infrastructure.
Either way you should make an informed
decision about whether you're going to
use the open source version or the
Enterprise version. So let's talk about the
differences. The main difference between
the open source version and the
Enterprise version, is the support. When
you pay for a subscription to the
Enterprise version of Sensu, you are
entitled to get somebody on the phone to
help you figure out why it may not be
working. If you're using the open source version,
you only have the type of community
support that comes with most open source projects. That's like the mailing list and
IRC and that kind of thing. Of course there are other avenues of training,  this one example,
but for the most part you're gonna be on
your own for integrating Sensu at
your organization. If you pay for the
Enterprise version, not only will you get a few
niceties, and nice features, you also get
the ability to depend on a company to be
there, when you have questions, and when you need someone to help you
troubleshoot and debug why the product is not working. So, keep this in mind when you're making
this decision of whether to use the
open-source, versus the Enterprise version.
A lot of the other technical differences
have to do with how well-tightly-
integrated Sensu is with a lot of
"turn-key" style plugins. Let's talk about
more specific technical differences.
Remember this is not a sales pitch, but any
engineer building this type of system
should at least be informed about the differences
you can make the best decision for your
situation.
Let's talk about each piece. This "contact routing" thing: the Enterprise version of Sensu comes with a
bunch of configured handlers, that will
cover ninety percent of what you might
want Sensu to do with and alert. So this
contact routing feature allows you to
specify the recipient of an alert, on a per-check basis. It's not that you can't do this
with the open source version, it's just a
little more tricky. This built-in
third-party integrations thing means
that the Enterprise version comes with
these handlers I just talked about. They're
versions of the open-source handlers
that are on GitHub, but they're just
more tightly integrated with the
product, so they'll come pre-installed. The
role-based access control and LDAP,
these are things that integrate with the
Sensu dashboard, the open source
version of the Sensu dashboard: Uchiwa, doesn't really have any concept of principle of least
privilege, or access controls or anything like that. It's kind of left as
an exercise to the reader. Certainly
your totally free to use an existing web
server in front of Uchiwa to handle
the type of authentication you might
need. But if you choose to use the
Enterprise version of Sensu, you'll get
integrated LDAP, and GitHub, and other
types of access control, built into the
dashboard. The support and training is
probably the biggest feature of the
Enterprise version. The training
is cool of course, but the support is what
you're really paying for here. The Sensu model is very similar to many other
open source projects, where the
Enterprise version comes with, you know,
a phone number you can call it get someone on the horn when need help. Again, the differences between
the open source and the Enterprise
versions of Sensu, pretty much come
down to: how tightly integrated a product
is with the rest of the ecosystem and
support. So if you're in a situation where
those things are important to you, it may
very well be worth the money to pay for
the Enterprise version. On the other hand
if you're used to taking an open source
product integrating with your infrastructure
already, and you don't mind
investing the time to integrate
that product with your stuff, and you're
not afraid to be on the hook for a
system when it doesn't go right,
the open source version might be okay
for you. It just depends on your scale, your
particular work environment, and the
business needs that you have to meet. That's about all I
have to say about this. Again, I don't
wanna make this sound like a sales pitch
for one way or the other. But again, as an
engineer, I think that we all need to be
at least aware of these differences, and we need to be making informed decisions about
these type of tradeoffs. That's about all I
have to say about that.